---
layout: post
title: Inflection Point
---

*This post is a work in progress! I am committing this publicly as I am testing this jekyll blog out. The full post will be tweeted out by me when its done.*

Most of the time the tech industry is a chaotic mess, filled with uncertainty and failed ideas for the future. Various platforms, operating systems, and computing paradigms come and go, with thousands of "world changing" ideas proposed each year by those who believe they're the next great visionary product genius. Unlike what subscribers to the myth of the male genius would want you to believe, the entire direction of the industry shifting is never the result of a single person. Rather these massive shifts are built through new technological innovations _in combination_ with multiple _consumer focused_ use cases which create a new product category. I haven't personally been alive super long, but here are some of the shifts I have knowledge of and were present for:

* The popularization of the graphical user interface / desktop paradigm
* Affordable home internet
* The modern smartphone
* The internet of things / voice assistants

The last one (IoT) was caused not by a singular "moment" but rather than a ton of companies throwing a bunch of networking chips in random devices, later accidentally arriving at an intuitive way to control them through voice. Regardless, it did fundamentally change consumer technology albeit a bit less than the previous three. Anyways, I am bringing all these previous shifts up because I believe a new one is coming and it is called...

The Metaverse.

I'm kidding. sort of. 

If you've followed tech discussion on twitter in the past few years, you've probably seen a lot of trends explode in certain circles and never spark any mainstream traction in terms of usage. Defenders of various cryptocurrencies and people who bought hashes of terribly drawn monkeys will rush to defend their precious assets by pointing to artificially inflating values of the hashes they purchased, and yet will be unable to explain any consumer benefits outside of its monetary value. Often these industry wide conniptions result from a group of people believing a future idea to have value without any sign of an eventual consumer benefit (and usually with a financial stake in its success), hopping on their technological cart and hoping that one day they wake up in front of a product fit horse. Given all this its pretty understandable if one entirely discards every idea that comes from of these brainstorming sessions, but I believe that the so called ""metaverse"" is a bit different. For one thing, I hate the word metaverse and dont like using it. Not because its the popular phrase or that it was recently adopted by a particular company, but because I believe we are moving towards _two_ separate products. 

The first product is what is referred to as **Spatial Computing**, and its the devices and interfaces that allow us to move traditional computing workloads off screens and onto VR / AR. While people seem to be discussing the experiences that this new type of computing will enable, they are all taking for granted that this will be the dominant form of computing in the future, and not really focusing on the use cases it will have outside the traditional VR experiences of gaming and socializing. It might be weird for an outsider to see Facebook totally pivot to Meta on the hope that this future technology one day exists and there's a market for it, but anyone following tech knows that various companies are all converging on building AR / Mixed Reality headsets, even though Meta is the only one with a consumer product you can order and use today. Regardless, as someone who owns a Quest and was an early supporter of Oculus, Spatial Computing has a long way to go before it becomes viable for daily use and workloads. My guess is that we will eventually converge on what is an expanded version of Oculus' [Infinite Office demo video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5_bVkbG1ZCo). 

It might seem like a boring concept, and McLuhan would likely [laugh at the very idea](https://twitter.com/peterberkman/status/1453822572848635910?s=20) that this technology is being used in what is fundamentally the same way we have been using desktop computers for decades. Having the ability to move windows around in 3D space is a natural evolution of the paradigm introduced with the original Macintosh. For the little i've used it in various applications, it has been incredibly freeing and a boon to my productivity. Perhaps its because I seem to do better understanding and remembering spaces than I do spoken words or concepts, but it is a benefit nonetheless. The main issue this type of computing runs into is that wearing a bulky headset on your face for more than an hour is a _terrible_ experience that no one has been able to solve, something gaming has managed to circumvent on the basis of being more fun than working on spreadsheets. This is a much bigger problem than anyone preaching the metaverse wants to really think about right now, because when you're designing what you believe to be the operating system of the future and "the next step in human communication" the last thing you're thinking of is how to the UX for QuickBooks, but if its not solved _before_ the second product, then there will be almost no mass adoption whatsoever.

Alright so quick side tangent / personal backstory. I went to a school filled with a [bunch of nerds who love computers](https://www.rit.edu). Greater than 20% of my personal friends have purchased and have owned for multiple years some form of virtual reality headset whether it be a Quest, Vive, Rift, or Index. Virtually every game / social experience in a fully virtual space demoed in [Meta's connect presentation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Uvufun6xer8) is available across various multiplayer applications available for all of these headsets, and yet no one I know boots up Tabletop Simulator in VR to play a game of chess or cards or to hang out in a virtual space with friends, because a similar feeling can be exhibited in asynchronous / "two dimensional" apps such as Discord and regular Tabletop Simulator. What I am getting at is that the experience Mark wants to create already exists in a less unified form, and is fundamentally uncompelling in a way he has not proposed a fix to with the aformentioned concept. The way to get people into a 3D space and hanging out with their friends is to remove the friction between putting the headset on, and allowing people to work in this digital space.

Alright. Lets talk about the second product. What people are referring to as the "metaverse" are actually just the immersive apps on this new spatial computing platform. They can be called VR Apps, VR games, or "3D Apps", or the "Internet of Spaces" which is something i've personally thought up and hope catches on. So in this instance / analogy, Spatial Computing is the iPhone, and 3D Apps are the Uber, Tinder, Pokemon Go, etc of the platform. The device enables the platform, but the platform couldnt exist without the mass adoption of the device.

To write:
It's awfully puzzling as to why Facebook recently rebranded their company as Meta, as their end game is to make the iphone of the future

(Disclaimer: I am a software engineer who works on Azure for Microsoft. My views do not represent my employer, just as your views dont represent yours. Additionally, I do not claim to be an expert in anything I am discussing here. This might read like a long winded rant sent in a discord server, because if I didnt create this blog it probably would have been one.)
