---
layout: post
title: Evan's Favorite Shows of 2022
---
(*this post is unfinished, shut up*) I watch a lot of shows, because I consider myself some sort of critic and love to seem smart. I'll keep updating this one until every show that premieres this year that I care about finishes (so likely february 2023). The rules are to be a "current year" show the first episode had to air in that year. That's because with a few [notable exceptions](https://www.cartoonbrew.com/ideas-commentary/6-days-to-air-reveals-south-parks-insane-production-schedule-67657.html) most series finish production of all episodes before the first one hits the air! Can't believe that's an ancient phrase now. Well actually I can. Anyways, here's my not finished list. Subject to change (tm)

## The List

1. The Bear (Season 1, Hulu) - 
2. Severance (Season 1, Apple TV+) - Brilliant television. One of the most brilliantly written and best directed dramas in years. this feels like it was algorithmically cooked up in a vat of every science fiction show from the 2010’s that I fell in love with. It has the ambiance of Counterpart, the mind bending writing of Mr. Robot / season 1 of Homecoming, and the mystery / world building of Westworld S1. It’s been a long time since a cliffhanger of a show has hit me this hard. I can’t fucking wait for season 2
3. Better Call Saul (Season 6, AMC)
4. Barry (Season 3, HBO) - This show has wonderfully evolved from its primarily comedic origins into one of the best dramas still on television, while still having phenomenal wit. An incredible drama.
5. Cyberpunk: Edgerunners (Miniseries, Netflix)
6. Peacemaker (Season 1, HBO Max) - pretty good, pretty fun!
7. Smiling Friends (Season 1, Adult Swim) - the renaissance men are coming to town
8. Righteous Gemstones (Season 2, HBO) - praiseeeeee
9. What We Do in the Shadows (Season 4, FX)
10. Stranger Things (Season 4, Netflix) - Season 1 of stranger things was a masterpiece lightning in a bottle season of television.
11. Star Trek: Strange New Worlds (Season 1, Paramount+) - Not the best Trek show ive seen. But it's a real Trek show, unlike everything else with the name on Paramount+. If you're a fan of the pre Kurtzman paramount+ shows, you'll like this.
12. The Boys (Season 3, Amazon Prime Video) - I don't really love this show as much as everyone else seems to. It's pretty good! but something about it has always irked me. It feels like the Rick and Morty for people who know who Matt Christman is.
13. Raised By Wolves (Season 2, HBO Max) - This show was alright. It wasnt bad but it wasnt anything standout. It's a real shame it got cancelled as the world building with the planet was just starting to get interesting, and the show actually introduced a really interesting new antagonist that challenged Mother / Father in some smart ways. Regardless it looked / felt pretty cheap this year.

---

Penalty Box

At this point on the list, I dont think i'd recommend actually watching anything here. These are just shows ive seen and want to comment on. So lets do that.

* Halo (Season 1, Paramount+) - Meh. Could have been a lot better than it was. I don't even entirely mind the venture from the canon of the original series, but it didn't even go anywhere after the first episode.
* Star Trek Picard (Season 2, Paramount+) - Didn't even finish. I am only watching this show so I have more context to the [red letter media videos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SP2HJ_XppbU). made it all the way up to the season finale somehow

### Not finished / still watching

* Atlanta (Season 3, FX)
* Atlanta (Season 4, FX)
* Hacks (Season 2, HBO Max)


### Other stuff I watched this year

* A few seasons of The X-Files
* The entirety of Breaking Bad
* The entirety of Better Call Saul
* A few seasons of Star Trek Deep Space 9, for the third (or fourth?) time
* Home Movies